hey how's it going guys this is Dave TD
and about a month ago I made a video on
the Alienware steam machine but it's
kind of like an overview of the product
it wasn't the review or anything it was
kind of like a first look at what the
Alienware steam machine was but I've had
it for a month now I've been playing it
pretty frequently like basically every
evening or weekend that I have a chance
to and I want to share with you guys my
experiences with this device after
having for a month so I thought I'd make
a video here it is now the defining
feature of the steam machine is the
controller there's a lot of hype when
the control is being developed but
initial reviews of the controller were
pretty mixed now after using it for a
month I actually think it's a really
good controller it takes time to get
used to it so if you're coming from a
ps4 or an Xbox controller everything
about the steam controller feels wrong
and it just feels unresponsive but it's
really just a matter of getting used to
it my favorite thing about it is the
haptic feedback on it there's a
mechanism in here that feels really cool
and it gives a unique character to the
steam controller it's kind of hard to
describe in words but basically if you
move your thumb around really quickly it
vibrates quickly and if you move around
slowly it vibrates slowly so the
feedback feels really deliberate and it
just makes the controller feel really
responsive when you're used to it the
four button inputs like the ABXY buttons
those took a little bit longer to get
used to at first I was really frequently
hitting the wrong buttons but after the
second week I got used to it and it's no
longer an issue but if you try it at
first and your immediate thought is like
wow these buttons are poorly placed
they're a little different but you will
get used to them over time as for how
well it controls games it depends
entirely on the game itself so even
after a month of playing shooters on
this thing I never got comfortable with
it I would do way better on a mouse and
keyboard than the steam controller so a
game like Team Fortress 2 it's an
awesome game with the mouse and keyboard
and if you play the sniper with the
controller it's still playable
especially when you suck like I do and
you just camp but certain classes like
the engineer I just found it really hard
to play it because instead of having the
wrench and the weapons on jaquise you
have to cycle through them and it's just
really difficult for me to get used to
the controller and the same thing goes
with MOBAs like
- its playable like way more playable
than you might imagine with a controller
but gameplay still feels really crippled
and just as a courtesy I played a lot of
bot matches for the first week just to
get used to the controller and then I
started playing some unranked matches
with random players and it was just a
show like everyone I played with
was a raging on me and I'm pretty bad at
dota 2 to begin with but using the
controller just took it to the next
level it doesn't matter how comfortable
you get with controller I think movas
were designed for Madison keyboard other
games like adventure games or
platformers or puzzle games those play
really well so this is mark of the ninja
and it's a game that I've always liked
but I just found it really difficult to
play with the keyboard so I never got
far in it but playing on the steam
controller was really cool and the whole
game felt nice I think platformers in
general are going to play really nicely
on the steam controller because the
directional controls are good and the
inputs are just going to feel really
snappy and then there's portal or portal
2 rather and if you don't know what it
is portal is a game that's kind of like
a puzzle game that you play in
first-person and despite having like the
first-person controls like a shooter it
plays really well I think it actually
plays almost as nicely as a keyboard and
mouse so basically as long as your game
doesn't need really snappy movements or
directional controls the controller is
great but if you do need really quick
d-pad movements and you might have a bad
time the selection of steamos games is
pretty good and if you want to you can
stream non steamos games from your PC or
Mac so this game is called Bastion and I
could have played this on steamos but
it's actually one of the few games I
have that run on Mac and it's trained
really nicely from a MacBook Pro without
any problems now obviously it runs at
the performance of the host computer so
you need a decent computer to do this
but yeah the tech works pretty well the
single-player experience is pretty solid
like the controller isn't ideal for
certain games but the performance of the
machine itself was always surprisingly
good like it's just a very fluid game
experience at 1080p even with the core
i3 now I also did some multiplayer
gaming with some friends they didn't
want to be on camera so I don't have
footage but playing the split-screen
Awesomenauts
it's something I've never done before
and when you play with your friends in
front of a TV it's a really fun
experience there aren't a ton of games
that have this kind of single screen
multiplayer thing but there's some
really good ones out there ok some
closing thoughts I think the big
question is whether or not it's worth it
to get the Alienware steam machine and
to answer that question I have to bring
up the sister product so Alienware makes
something called the ELN where alpha
which is very similar in specs and price
to the steam machine except there's two
differences one it's got an Xbox
controller instead of the steam
controller and secondly it's running
Windows instead of steam OS so the first
reaction that I had was why would anyone
get this over this over the alpha like
the steam machine is just a more
constricted version the alpha has more
potential you can use it as like a
secondary PC you can play more games on
it because it's not just restricted to
steam OS games so why would people get
the steam machine over the alpha and
after using both of them pretty
extensively I can say one thing it all
boils down to simplicity traditionally
consoles are like very simple you go up
to your TV turn on your console and
within seconds you're playing your game
at least with like Sega Genesis nowadays
is a little bit slower but in general
very simple with the Alpha you're
running a second layer software that you
come to deal with before you can play
your games which is Windows and for most
people I mean most people that will be
watching my youtube channel that's not a
big deal because you understand your
computer pretty well you just boot up
your thing deal with Windows before you
deal with steam and that's fine but
there's a lot of people that just want a
very simple steam experience they want
to be able to play steam games just like
that and that's what this thing offers
if you already have like a PC that has
like steam machine you have a big Steam
library I would definitely not get the
Alpha because it's basically like a
gimped version of your computer this
thing however gives you a very unique
experience it's not like a completely
different gaming experience but it's
like a very different feel from just
your computer in front of the TV it's a
real it's like a console it's like a
steam console and I think they did a
really good job with that but if you're
looking for like a customizable gaming
experience with like you know better
frame rates and all that jazz go with
the alpha or go with your PC but if
you're looking for something simple and
just straight-up boot up and go go with
the steam machine it's pretty cool
device that's the end of this review
hope you guys liked it thumbs if you did
subs if you loved it it's been nice I'll
see you guys next time
you